---
title: Nodo de Argentina launches the portal “More and better democracy”
date: '2023-03-24 14:46:46'
language: en
language_reference: nodo-de-argentina-lanza-el-portal-mas-y-mejor-democracia
source_url: https://www.lareferencia.info/es/blog-masonry/noticias/item/306-nodo-argentina-lanza-portal-mas-y-mejor-democracia
image: /assets/img/news/nodo-de-argentina-lanza-el-portal-mas-y-mejor-democracia.jpg
published: true
---

40 years after the return to democracy, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation launches the portal [“More and better democracy”] (https://masymejordemocracia.mincyt.gob.ar/), a virtual space for memory where it makes available to society the publications generated by the scientific community on Argentine democracy.

The content offered includes, among other issues related to that historical moment in our country, topics such as: the last civil-military dictatorship, the restitution of democracy, the right to identity and the trial of the junta. These are more than 9,000 research results, including scientific articles, books, master's and doctoral theses, which are in Open Access through the network of institutional repositories that make up the National System of Digital Repositories. These results will increase with the gradual incorporation of new materials to the attached repositories.

The dissemination of national scientific production through institutional Open Access repositories is a way to democratize access to knowledge that is framed in Law No. 26,899 and its regulations. This regulation requires public organizations and institutions of the National System of Science, Technology and Innovation that receive financing from the National State, the dissemination in Open Access through interoperable digital repositories, the scientific and technological production that results from work, training and/or projects financed in whole or in part with public funds.

In turn, the portal is possible due to the interoperability standards and protocols established by the National System of Digital Repositories, following international guidelines and agreements, which allow the repositories to communicate and integrate with each other.

**Open Access**

The Open Access (AA) model for the production of science and technology allows users, free of charge, to: read, download, copy, distribute, print, search or link the full texts of scientific articles, and use them for legitimate purposes linked to scientific research, education or the management of public policies, without other economic, legal or technical barriers than those associated with the Internet connection itself.

The only condition posed by the AA model for the reproduction and distribution of the works made available is the obligation to grant authors control over the integrity of their work and the right to be properly recognized and cited.

Source: [Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation.](https://www.argentina.gob.ar/noticias/el-ministerio-de-ciencia-tecnologia-e-innovacion-lanza-el-portal-mas-y-mejor-democracia)
